**Infrastructure monitoring** is like a dashboard in a car, infrastructure monitoring tools show how well an organization’s IT systems are working. These tools help organizations find issues before they turn into big problems.
**Active monitoring solutions** are software tools that operate in the background and actively search for potential issues or slowdowns. These types of solutions alert network administrators as soon as something is wrong.
Network performance monitoring (NPM) and application performance monitoring (APM) software are active monitoring solutions. They provide continuous network monitoring, allowing administrators to identify and respond to issues as soon as they occur.
**Passive monitoring solutions** are software tools that watch and record what is happening on a computer network without actively interacting with it. These tools help network administrators track what’s happening and ensure everything is working properly.
**Network scanners** detect hosts and services running on a network. The scanner detects all active hosts and maps them to their IP addresses
**nslookup** is a command-line tool that obtains information about a host system. nslookup queries the domain name system (DNS) to request information about IP addresses, domain names, and other DNS records
**ping test** measures the time it takes for a data packet, or ping, to travel from one computer or server to another
**packet analyzer**, also known as a packet sniffer, protocol analyzer, or network analyzer, is a tool that captures and analyzes data in transit across a network. This tool examines each data packet that passes through the network, searching for potential issues. It observes the behavior of applications or users on the network and monitors the performance of network connections.
**Traceroute** is a diagnostic tool used to track a pathway that packets of data take from a source to a destination across a network
**Network reconnaissance** is the process of gathering information actively or passively about a network, its devices, and its services to identify potential vulnerabilities.
An **intrusion detection system (IDS)** tool watches all the traffic in and out of a network. If it detects anything suspicious or malicious, it notifies the network administrator that something bad might happen.
An **intrusion detection and prevention system (IDPS)** not only detects suspicious activity but also takes action to stop it by blocking certain IP addresses or closing off certain ports to prevent attackers from getting in.
An **endpoint detection and response (EDR)** tool monitors endpoints such as files, user activities, network connections, processes, and system resources for suspicious activity. If the tool detects a threat, it can block or quarantine it.
**Security information and event management (SIEM)** is a network security service that detects and responds to security threats. SIEM tools collect data from logs, applications, databases, and network traffic. It processes the data to identify potential threats and then sends alerts to administrators.
**Network detection and response (NDR)** uses analytics, automation, and threat intelligence to identify suspicious activity and malware on an organization’s network. Using traffic analysis, behavior-based analysis, and machine learning, NDRs quickly detect potential threats and respond to mitigate any discovered threats.
**Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR)** tools automatically collect information from different security tools and use that data to identify potential threats. They also automate certain security tasks, such as isolating infected devices and blocking malicious traffic.
A **managed detection and response (MDR)** service offers organizations continuous monitoring, threat detection, and response capabilities. Organizations can get an MDR service through a subscription or as part of managed security services.
**Behavioral analytics** involves tracking and analyzing patterns of human behavior using data such as user activity logs, network traffic, and system events.
**Endpoint management** refers to monitoring, securing, and controlling the numerous endpoints connected to a network.
Endpoint response is the ability to detect and respond to threats affecting network endpoints. Advanced security tools such as antimalware software, intrusion detection systems (IDSs), and firewalls identify potential threats and take appropriate action.
An **incident response plan** outlines the steps that security teams should take to contain and remove the threat when a threat is detected on an endpoint. A well-planned response can help minimize the impact of the incident and reduce the risk of data loss or theft.
**Security posture** refers to an organization’s overall security status across its information systems and networks. It is a measure of how prepared the organization is for cyberattacks.
